September News (#387)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-09-23-ropensci-news-digest-september-2022/index.Rmd

params:
  last_newsletter: '2022-08-26'
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
library("magrittr")
library("rlang")
last_newsletter <- anytime::anytime(params$last_newsletter)
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = FALSE)
url <- sprintf(
    "/blog/%s/%s/%s/%s",
    lubridate::year(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::month(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::day(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$slug
    )
english <- function(x) {
  as.character(english::english(x))
}

nice_string <- function(...) {
  glue::glue_collapse(..., sep = ", ", last = ", and ")
}
```
<!-- Before sending DELETE THE INDEX_CACHE and re-knit! -->

Dear rOpenSci friends, it's time for our monthly news roundup!
<!-- blabla -->
You can read this post [on our blog](`r url`).
Now let's dive into the activity at and around rOpenSci!

## rOpenSci HQ

### Check out our Calls for new maintainers!

A few packages are [looking for new maintainers](#call-for-maintainers).

> Do you want to maintain software that will help fellow R users extract tables out of PDFs, access data from the IUCN Red list of endangered species, among other things?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you want to maintain software that will help fellow R users extract tables out of PDFs, or access data from the IUCN Red list of endangered species, or perhaps something else completely?
```

> See if one of the calls appeal to you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See if one of these packages appeals to you!
```

> You could volunteer on your own or as a duo of maintainers (the more the merrier!).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You could volunteer on your own or as a team of maintainers (the more the merrier!).
```

> The rOpenSci team will be happy to help you about specific aspects, providing resources, tips and PR reviews as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rOpenSci team will be happy to help you with specifics, and will provide resources, tips and PR reviews as needed.
```

  cat("### Software Review\n\n")
  cat(
    paste0(
      purrr::map_chr(software_review, format_post),
      collapse = "\n\n"
    )
  )
  cat("\n\n")
}

others <- posts[purrr::map_lgl(posts, "other")]
if (length(others) > 0) {
  if (length(others) != length(posts)) cat("### Other topics\n\n")
  cat(
    paste0(
      purrr::map_chr(others, format_post),
      collapse = "\n\n"
    )
  )
  cat("\n\n")
}

tech_notes <- posts[purrr::map_lgl(posts, "tech_note")]
if (length(tech_notes) > 0) {
  cat("\n\n")
  cat("### Tech Notes\n\n")
  cat(
    paste0(
      purrr::map_chr(tech_notes, format_post),
      collapse = "\n\n"
    )
  )
  cat("\n\n")
}
```

## Use cases

```{r usecases, eval=FALSE}
# rerun get_use_cases.R at the same time
usecases <- jsonlite::read_json("../../../data/usecases/usecases.json")
get_one_case <- function(usecase) {
  tibble::tibble(
    title = usecase$title,
    reporter = usecase$reporter,
    url = usecase$url,
    image = usecase$image,
    date = anytime::anydate(usecase$date)
  )
}
usecases <- purrr::map_df(usecases, get_one_case)
usecases <- dplyr::filter(usecases, date >= as.Date(last_newsletter))
usecases <- split(usecases, seq(nrow(usecases)))
```

> `snakecase::to_sentence_case(english(length(usecases)))` use case`if (length(usecases) > 1) "s"` of our packages and resources ha`if (length(usecases) > 1) "ve" else "s"` been reported since we sent the last newsletter.

Reviewer: Doesn't this need to have an 'r' at the beginning?
```suggestion
`r snakecase::to_sentence_case(english(length(usecases)))` use case`r if (length(usecases) > 1) "s"` of our packages and resources ha`r if (length(usecases) > 1) "ve" else "s"` been reported since we sent the last newsletter.
```

Author: yes but currently there is no use case hence the escaping

Reviewer: We got two this week! :tada: just in time :wink:

See if one of these packages appeals to you!
You could volunteer on your own or as a team of maintainers (the more the merrier!).
The rOpenSci team will be happy to help you with specifics, and will provide resources, tips and PR reviews as needed.
Thank you!

### Coworking sessions continue!

Join us for social coworking & office hours monthly on first Tuesdays! 
Hosted by Steffi LaZerte and various community hosts. 
Everyone welcome. 
No RSVP needed. 
Consult our [Events](/events) page to find your local time and how to join.

* [Tuesday, 04 October 2022 9 AM Australian Western / 1:00 UTC ](/events/coworking-2022-10/) "Start writing that package!" *Hosted by community host [Nick Tierney](/author/nicholas-tierney/) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
    * Cowork on a project of your choice;
    * Take time to look up how to write a package;
    * Start putting together that package you've always meant to;
    * Or talk to [Nick Tierney](/author/nicholas-tierney/) and others about how to get started.

> 

Reviewer: @yabellini This is my suggested wording for the Newsletter. What do you think? Reword as necessary!

```suggestion

* [Tuesday, 01 November 2022 9 AM North American Pacific / 16:00 UTC ](/events/coworking-2022-11/) "Champions Program Application Clinic" *Hosted by rOpenSci community manager [Yanina Bellini Saibene](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/) and [Steffi LaZerte](/author/steffi-lazerte/)*
    * Cowork on a project of your choice;
    * Prepare your application for the Champions Program;
    * Or talk to [Yanina](/author/yanina-bellini-saibene/) about the application process.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks perfect.  Thanks!

date: '2022-09-23'
slug: ropensci-news-digest-september-2022
categories: []
tags:
  - newsletter
description: keywords from the content
params:
  last_newsletter: '2022-08-26'
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
library("magrittr")
library("rlang")
last_newsletter <- anytime::anytime(params$last_newsletter)
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = FALSE)
url <- sprintf(
    "/blog/%s/%s/%s/%s",
    lubridate::year(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::month(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::day(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$slug
    )
english <- function(x) {
  as.character(english::english(x))
}

nice_string <- function(...) {
  glue::glue_collapse(..., sep = ", ", last = ", and ")
}
```
<!-- Before sending DELETE THE INDEX_CACHE and re-knit! -->

Dear rOpenSci friends, it's time for our monthly news roundup!
<!-- blabla -->
You can read this post [on our blog](`r url`).
Now let's dive into the activity at and around rOpenSci!

## rOpenSci HQ

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!

[rOpenSci Champion Program](/champions/) is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities. 
That is why this program focuses __on people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

If you are selected as Champions, you will develop your project and get training, mentoring, and a stipend for a year. 

You can apply until November 7, 2022 [using this form]().  You can [read more details on this blog post]() 
```

Reviewer 2: Some of the link are missing yet, but are all in different PR.

categories: []
tags:
  - newsletter
description: keywords from the content
params:
  last_newsletter: '2022-08-26'
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
library("magrittr")
library("rlang")
last_newsletter <- anytime::anytime(params$last_newsletter)
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = FALSE)
url <- sprintf(
    "/blog/%s/%s/%s/%s",
    lubridate::year(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::month(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    stringr::str_pad(lubridate::day(rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$date), 2, "0", side = "left"),
    rmarkdown::yaml_front_matter(knitr::current_input())$slug
    )
english <- function(x) {
  as.character(english::english(x))
}

nice_string <- function(...) {
  glue::glue_collapse(..., sep = ", ", last = ", and ")
}
```
<!-- Before sending DELETE THE INDEX_CACHE and re-knit! -->

Dear rOpenSci friends, it's time for our monthly news roundup!
<!-- blabla -->
You can read this post [on our blog](`r url`).
Now let's dive into the activity at and around rOpenSci!

## rOpenSci HQ

### We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!

> [rOpenSci Champion Program](/champions/) is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[rOpenSci Champions Program](/champions/) is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities. 
```

> That is why this program focuses __on people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is why this program focuses on __people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.
```

> If you are selected as Champions, you will develop your project and get training, mentoring, and a stipend for a year. 

Reviewer: Otherwise it sounds a bit like you'd receive a monthly stipend, over a year, which I don't think is the case?
```suggestion
If you are selected as a Champion, over the course of a year you will develop a project, get training, and be mentored. You will also receive a small stipend. 
```

Reviewer 2: I will remove the small word because the sense of big or small changes a lot by region of the world.

> You can apply until November 7, 2022 [using this form]().  You can [read more details on this blog post]() 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply until November 7, 2022 [using this form]().  You can read more details on this [blog post]() 
```
